#summary Some of the techniques used in libmv

=== KLT ===
  * [http://www.ces.clemson.edu/~stb/klt/ An implementation in C.]
  * J. Shi and C. Tomasi.  Good Features to Track.  In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 593-600, 1994. ([http://www.ces.clemson.edu/~stb/klt/shi-tomasi-good-features-cvpr1994.pdf PDF])

=== Multiview Geometry ===
  * R. I. Hartely and A. Zisserman.  Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision.  Second Edition.  Cambridge University Press, ISBN: 0521540518, 2004.
  * Paper on [http://homepage.mac.com/sigfpe/paper.pdf automatic differentiation], which we may want to implement in Eigen.

=== Focal Length Estimation ===
  * R. I. Hartley.  Extraction of focal lengths from the fundamental matrix.  Technical Repport, 1993 ([http://axiom.anu.edu.au/~hartley/Papers/focal-lengths/focal.pdf PDF])
  * P. Sturm, Z.L. Cheng, P.C.Y. Chen and A.N. Poo.  Focal length calibration from two views: method and analysis of singular cases.  Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 99, Issue 1, July 2005, Pages 58-95 ([http://perception.inrialpes.fr/Publications/2005/SCCP05/SturmZhengChenPoo-cviu05.pdf PDF])
  * H. Stewénius, D. Nistér, F. Kahl and F. Schaffalitzky.  A Minimal Solution for Relative Pose with Unknown Focal Length.  CVPR 2005.  ([http://cmp.felk.cvut.cz/~martid1/articles/Martinec-CVPR2007.pdf PDF])
  * [http://phototour.cs.washington.edu/focal.html Estimating the focal length of a photo from EXIF tags], by Noah Snavely.
  * J. Repko, M. Pollefeys. [http://www.cs.unc.edu/~marc/pubs/Repko3DIM05.pdf 3D Models from Extended Uncalibrated Video Sequences: Addressing Key-frame Selection and Projective Drift].

=== Reconstruction Registration ===
  * D. Martinec and T. Pajdla. Robust Rotation and Translation Estimation in Multiview Reconstruction. CVPR 2007. ([http://cmp.felk.cvut.cz/~martid1/articles/Martinec-CVPR2007.pdf PDF], [http://cmp.felk.cvut.cz/~martid1/demoCVPR07/ web])
  * Jun Liu and Roger Hubbold International Symposium on Visual Computing (ISVC'06) ([http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~liuja/pubs/2006/isvc-b/liu06b.pdf PDF]).
  * Noah Snavely, Steven M. Seitz, Richard Szeliski : Skeletal Sets for Efficient Structure from Motion (CVPR 2008). [http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~snavely/projects/skeletalset/ project page]

=== Dense reconstruction ===
  * C. Zach, M. Sormann, and K. Karner.  High-performance multi-view reconstruction.  In International Symposium on 3D Data Processing, Visualization and Transmission (3DPVT), 2006 ([http://www.icg.tugraz.at/Members/zach/my_publications/3dpvt2006a.pdf PDF])

=== Camera resectioning ===

 * A. Ansar K. Daniilidis, "Linear Pose Estimation from Points or Lines," IEEE Trans. Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 25: 578-589, 2003, ([http://www-robotics.jpl.nasa.gov/publications/Adnan_Ansar/ansar&daniilidis03pami.pdf PDF])
 * Horn B. K. P.: Closed-form solution of absolute orientation using unit quaternions. Journal of the Optical Society of America 4, 4 (1987).([people.csail.mit.edu/bkph/papers/Absolute_Orientation.pdf PDF])