#summary Libmv Google Summer of Code 2011 ideas
#labels gsoc

= Google Summer of Code 2011 (GSoC2011) ideas =

We are going to apply for GSoC this year.

The main project idea is to propose to one (or more) student(s) to improve libmv's technologies and integrate it into blender.
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Project ideas  =

== Idea 1: Integrate libmv into Blender ==
In this projet you will participate to the initial integration of libmv into Blender. 

Libmv has now many components dedicated or not to camera tracking. 
Here the main idea is to provide an efficient API (functions, data structures, etc.) in order to do camera tracking in Blender. 
You will participate on the libmv side and will collaborate together with a/some blender's core developers.
Note that we do not want to have all functionalities that other commercial software propose. 
But at the end of the project, anybody should be able to load a footage (images) in Blender and compute the camera trajectory using libmv.
=== Project objectives ===
The major functionalities libmv must provide or should handle
  * Load images in blender and send them to libmv
  * Call the libmv's 2D tracking process and retreive the 2D tracks
  * Display the 2D tracks on images
  * Allow the user to delete wrong tracks and add new ones
  * Call the libmv's camera tracking process
  * Display the estimated camera 3D trajectory
  * A basic coordinate-system tool (scene scale, alignment, ... )

For more information on this integration see [libmvBlenderInterface] and [Blender2DTrackerPlan] and the [http://blenderartists.org/forum/showthread.php?t=210901 Blender's thread] and [http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Dev:Ref/GoogleSummerOfCode/2011/Ideas Blender's GSoC 2011 ideas].

*Important notes* 
Since libmv is still under development: 
  * the API should be modified/improved in order to fit with the project requirements. 
  * the results of the camera tracking (and 2D tracking) will depend on the quality of our algorithms. A very accurate camera trajectory estimation is *NOT* an objective of this projet (but is an objective of libmv ;) )

=== Who we are looking for ===
We are looking for students who
  * have a background in computer vision 
  * already know C++ and Blender

  * Having an experience in developing Blender components is a big plus
  * Having an experience with one of the main existing commercial software (Boujou, PFTrack, MatchMover, etc.) is a plus.

== Idea 2: Bundle Adjustment Library ==
The next major technologies of libmv (camera calibration and self-calibration, camera and/or point optimization etc.) need to have a Bundle Adjustment (BA) framework.
Since SSBA doesn't support for instance the projective optimization or others specific optimizations, we propose to create a new BA library. 
This project will actively use Eigen library (linear, nonlinear, sparse optimization) and you will certainly contribute to Eigen.
=== Project objectives ===
The major objectives can be
  * A generic BA with numerical derivatives
  * A BA with analitical derivatives (camera extrinsics + intrinsics + 3D points)
  * A sparse BA (sparse resolution, camera extrinsics + 3D points)
  
=== Who we are looking for ===
We are looking for students who
  * have a background in computer vision or mathematics
  * have studied (courses) linear/nonlinear optimization
  * already know C++ and Eigen library (or at least Lapack)

  * Having an experience in nonliear optimization is a big plus

== Idea 3: Tracker improvement ==
Improve our 2D tracker!
=== Project objectives ===
The major objectives can include
  * Clean the matching process (use classes)
  * Add a mask system during the feature detection
  * Add a mask system during the feature matching
  * Add/improve the image pyramid tracker
  * Create a predictive tracker (motion prediction -> features prediction)
=== Who we are looking for ===
We are looking for students who
  * have a background in computer vision
  * already know C++

== Idea 4: Reconstruction from unordered images / dense 3D reconstruction ==
Improve our reconstruction from unordered images and/or create a dense reconstruction of the scene!
=== Who we are looking for ===
We are looking for students who
  * have a background in computer vision
  * already know C++

== Idea 5: Augmented Reality or SLAM or any other great SfM/CV algo ==
Yes, why not! Feel free to propose your project!
=== Who we are looking for ===
We are looking for students who
  * have a background in computer vision
  * already know C++

= Applying for Libmv GSoC 2011  =
In order to apply to Libmv GSoC 2011, you should
  * Read the project description and make sure your background is appropriate
  * Apply to the [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/student/apply/google/gsoc2011 official Google SoC 2011]
  * Send us your ideas and application (to libmv-devel_AT_googlegroups.com) 

The application must contain the following information:
  * Name
  * Location
  * Email address/irc nickname
  * Project description (what are you going to do?) 
  * Project schedule (what you expect to have ready for mid-term and final evaluation? )
  * Background (courses taken: UI, Computer programming, Match moving, etc)
  * Skills (c++, blender etc)
  * Experience (Work and open source)
  * A link to one of your code that you are proud of.