#summary List of related projects.

= Introduction =

In this describes other computer vision libraries and software.

= General Purpose Computer Vision Libraries =

  * [http://sourceforge.net/projects/opencvlibrary/ OpenCV]
  * [http://sourceforge.net/projects/opencvlibrary/ VXL]
  * [http://openvidia.sourceforge.net/ OpenVIDIA] low-level vision using nVidia hardware.
  * [http://ti.arc.nasa.gov/visionworkbench/ NASA Vision Workbench]
  * [http://www.mip.informatik.uni-kiel.de/~wwwadmin/Software/Doc/BIAS/html/ BIAS]

= Calibration Libraries and Tools =
There is and extensive list of links [http://www.vision.caltech.edu/bouguetj/calib_doc/htmls/links.html here]

  * Bouguet's [http://www.vision.caltech.edu/bouguetj/calib_doc/  Camera Calibration Toolbox for Matlab]
  * [http://www.dlr.de/rm-neu/desktopdefault.aspx/tabid-3925/ DLR Camera Calibration Toolbox]


= 3D Reconstruction Libraries and Tools =
  * [http://phototour.cs.washington.edu/bundler/ Bundler] - This is the code used in Microsoft's Photosynth project (or at least, was the first implementation).
  * [http://code.google.com/p/pixelstruct/ pixelstruct] - A visualization tool for synths made with Bundler. Looks quite similar to what we need.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/openvis3d/ OpenVis3D]
  * [http://cvlab.epfl.ch/software/bazar/html/group__garfeild.html GARFEILD] keypoint matching.
  * [http://labts.troja.mff.cuni.cz/~machl5bm/insight3d/ Insight3D] - Probably the most related to libmv, Insight3D is a modelling from wide-baseline photos package. GPLv2.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/ehci/ EHCI] - Realtime 3D head tracking.
  * [http://bardsley.org.uk/category/research/ A series of blog posts about 3D reconstruction and the like].
  * [http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~ajd/software.html Andrew Davison's SLAM]
  * [http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~gk/ Georg Klein's SLAM]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/fvision2008/ fvision2008] - Similar to libmv; uses OpenCV underneath. 
  * [http://code.google.com/p/fvision2010/ fvision2010] - Similar to libmv; uses OpenCV underneath.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/uniclop/ uniclop] - This project attempts to create an easy to use online self calibration software.
  * [http://www.fit3d.info/] - FIT3D is a Matlab Toolbox that will allow to obtain a complete 3D model from a set of calibrated images.