#summary Dealing with third-party code in libmv.

== Importing new third_party code ==

  # Make sure the license is compatible. In particular, it cannot be GPL-incompatible (because libmv will be bundled with blender eventually). This means Apache, GPL3, among others, are incompatible.
  # Email the list to ask before adding it!
  # Create a directory for it under 'third_party/'; for example '`flens/`'.
  # Copy only the relevant parts of the code for the project. For example, with FLENS, only the source under the `flens` directory in the FLENS distribution was include (not examples, tutorials, etc).
  # Create a `README.libmv` file which follows the below template:
{{{
Project: FLENS
URL: http://flens.sourceforge.net/
License: New BSD
Upstream version: svn r1234, or cvs @ date ..., or version 1.2.6.
Local modifications: None.
}}}
  # Make sure there is a `LICENSE` file with the terms of the license. If there isn't one, find the relevant license text and put it in the file `LICENSE`.
  # Check the files in.
    * It is important to check in a pristine version of the upstream sources for creating patches.
  # Create a `sconstruct` that builds the relevant files.
    * This may involve editing the source. If it does, update the `README.libmv`.
  # Check in the `sconstruct`, and (if any) updates to `README.libmv` and the sources.

== Modifying third_party code ==

Any time you modify third party code, update `README.libmv`. If you are adding new functionality add unit tests covering the added functionality. _Yes, add tests for third_party libraries_! If the third party library has a testing framework, use that. Otherwise use libmv's simple testing framework.

Example:
{{{
Project: FLENS
URL: http://flens.sourceforge.net/
License: New BSD
Upstream version: svn r1234, or cvs @ date ..., or version 1.2.6.
Local modifications:

Extended TinyMatrix support so it has a more convenient API.

Previous local modifications (adding better SVD) were merged upstream in r1230.
}}}