#summary What Pau is been working on in libmv.


= Currently working on =
 * Basic multiview reconstruction algorithms.
 * Improving ImageLibrary.
 * Implementing KLT for the CorrespondenceLibrary.


= To do =

 * Two view reconstruction algos:
   * ~~8-point algorithm for the fundamental matrix.~~
   * Non-linear MLE of the fundamental matrix.
   * ~~Focal from fundamental, Hartley method.~~
   * ~~Add failure handling to focal from fundamental.~~
   * Add data sets for testing.
 * Three view reconstruction:
   * Look what Keir did in libmv1.
   * Port it.
 * Bundle adjustment:
   * Look what Keir did in libmv1.
   * Port it.
 * ~~Arrange the multiview functions:~~
   * ~~Put functions in their adequate files (ex. P_From_KRt should not be in fundamental.h).~~
   * Decide a naming convention for the functions.
 * ~~Set up cmake files to call test data generators.~~
 * Write more image io stuff.
 * Create a doxyfile and check that doxygen output looks ok.


= Done =
This is very redundant with the svn commits, but moving things from above to bellow is pretty satisfying :-)

==== Saturday, August 9th, 2008 ====
 * Fixed a bug in fundamental_test.cc
 * Made FundamentalFromCorrespondence return a "confidence" value.
 * Arranged fundamental files a bit.

==== Friday, August 8th, 2008 ====
 * Finished Hartley's focal from fundamental.

==== Thursday, August 7th, 2008 ====
 * Added inefficient implementation of Determinant and Inverse functions.
 * Added matrix stacking functions.
 * Wrote P_from_KRt and KRT_from_P functions.

==== Wednesday, August 6th, 2008 ====
 * Set up cmake files to call test data generators.
 * Improved the 8-point algorithm.
 * Moved things numeric.

==== Tuesday,  August 5th, 2008 ====
 * Implemented the 8-point algorithm.

==== End of July ====
 * Wrote the multiscale version of KLT.

==== Saturday,  July 12th, 2008 ====
 * Added io support for color PPM.
 * Added output to Lenna tracking test/example.
 * Added pre-smoothing for the tracking examples.
 * Wrote a note on why images *must* be smoothed before tracking.

==== Friday,  July 11th, 2008 ====
 * Wrote KLT derivation to facilitate and document the implementation.
 * Implemented the basic version of KLT feature tracking.
 * Made Qt4 work on the mac.

==== Thursday,  July 10th, 2008 ====
 * Switched to cmake.

==== Tuesday, July 8th, 2008 ====
 * Wrote a good features to track detector.
 * Integral images based on Convolve.
 * Fixed sconstruct files to work under Mac OS X.

==== Monday, July 7th, 2008 ====
 * Implemented a Gaussian image pyramid.

==== Wednesday, July 2th, 2008 ====
 * Wrote specific functions for low dimensional arrays.
 * Wrote an Image class extending ArrayND<T, 3>.
 * pgm read/write.
 * linear and nearest neighbor interpolation.

==== Tuesday, July 1th, 2008 ====
 * Wasted my day fighting with C++ templates.
 * Understood the meaning of "pragmatic use of templates" in VXL's documentation.
 * Removed smart pointers from ArrayND.  Only one array can own the data now.
 * Wrote ArrayND tests.

==== Monday, June 30th, 2008 ====
 * Write ImageLibrary goals and non-goals.
 * Write a minimal example of Image class.
 * Write the Tuple class for representing multidimensional indices.
 * Write the ArrayND class with basic access functionality.